Document issues with pre-commit from alternative git clients (#6609)
learningequality/kolibri: docs/getting_started.rst

Linting and code auto-formatting provided by Prettier and Black are run in the background automatically by default when you run the dev server.  It is a good to monitor for linting errors in the build process: while the build may complete, it will also issue warnings to the terminal.

> A full set of linting and auto-formatting can also be applied by pre-commit hooks (instructions below). If those are bypassed or not triggered, our Travis CI builds will eventually fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a convenience, many developers will want to install linting and formatting plugins in their editor. Installing ESLint, Prettier, and Black, and Flake8 plugins in your editor will catch most (but not all) code-quality checks.

If desired, you can also install pre-commit hooks (instructions below) that will prevent you from locally committing any code to git which fails to pass the code quality checks. 

If you do not use any of these options, your code is likely fail our server-side checks and you will need to update the PR in order to get it merged.
```

Author: > Installing ESLint, Prettier, and Black, and Flake8 plugins in your editor will catch most (but not all) code-quality checks.

Maybe this can be elaborated in a separate section? I'm afraid that setting up effective linters in an editor is something that isn't very easy.

```
Setting up linting in your editor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some of the most important linting tools run in pre-commit are ESLint (frontend), Prettier (frontend), Black (Python), and Flake8 (Python). As an alternative to using pre-commit, you can add these linters to your editor manually.

You can install the linters in your Kolibri development environment.

The Python linters are invoked like this::

    /path/to/your/virtualenv/bin/python -m black <path-to-file>
    /path/to/your/virtualenv/bin/python -m flake8 <path-to-file>
```

Author: Btw how do you invoke Prettier and ESLint front an external environment? Can you share a screenshot of your editor that I can use?

Reviewer: I'm hesitant to elaborate too much here because everyone has different dev environments. For example in Sublime Text one can use https://github.com/jgirardet/sublack and https://github.com/SublimeLinter/SublimeLinter-eslint

I don't quite understand your question about external environments

Author: What I mean is that Kolibri's dev environment (perhaps both virtualenv and nvm) has to be active when the Editor invokes some linting tool - isn't that a challenge? Or are the linters used in Editors normally completely separate from the Kolibri env?

Author: Maybe I'm thinking too much of an options window with a text input field where the user configures which command to be run by the editor for linting :)

Author: YES! These were great additions, thanks!!

  yarn run lint-frontend
  yarn run fmt-backend:check

> `pre-commit <http://pre-commit.com/>`__ is used to apply a full set of checks and formatting automatically each time that ``git commit`` runs. If there are errors, the Git commit is aborted and you are asked to fix the error and run ``git commit`` again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pre-commit <http://pre-commit.com/>`__ is used to check and format code added to your git staging area each time that ``git commit`` runs. If there are errors, the commit is aborted and you are asked to fix the error and run ``git commit`` again.
```

Author: I would really miss the "full set" detail, i.e. that pre-commit aligns with CI linting. I've had a lot of frustration with non-aligned local linting in this and my own repositories -- maybe other people won't read "full set" with the same ideas, but that's the idea.

Reviewer: Ah, I interpreted "full set" to refer to the list of files.

Pre-commit is already installed as a development dependency, but you also need to enable it:

.. code-block:: bash

  pre-commit install

> .. note:: Pre-commit can have issues running from alternative Git clients like GitUp. If you encounter problems while committing changes, run ``pre-commit uninstall`` to disable pre-commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will run checks on every commit, which may not be desired if you prefer to `commit early and often <https://sethrobertson.github.io/GitBestPractices/>`__. Note that you can bypass the checks by passing using ``git commit --no-verify``.

Alternatively, you can have the checks run before pushing to your remote rather than on every single local commit:

.. code-block:: bash
  pre-commit install -t pre-push

To disable pre-commit, run

.. code-block:: bash
  pre-commit uninstall
  
.. note:: Pre-commit needs to have access to your Python virtual environment, which might cause issues in Git GUI clients.
```

Author: I thought we had resolved that pre-commit itself does not prevent this, but it's the usage of a git client that doesn't have pre-commit's virtual environments activated for the git hook?

Alternatives are: `git commit --no-verify` and installing the hook as a pre-push hook? Shouldn't that rather be documented instead of passing false information? Pre-commit is a wonderful and powerful tool, I feel like it's unnecessarily and unfairly discouraged in this manner.

Reviewer: okay, updated with additional information so people can make informed choices
